. maj-

PREFACE.

IN writing the following commentary on the plays of Terence, my
chief aim has been to maintain the utmost brevity consistent with
clearness3 and it is possible that some readers may* consider me
too brief upon passages where a good deal of illustration is some-
times given. But for an editor to do good service, it is necessary,
in my opinion, that he should indicate at least as much as he
actually gives in the way of explanation; and I have accordingly
endeavoured to keep within bounds the tendency to quotation,
which is one of the most human, and at the same time most trou-
blesome errors that a commentator can fall into. In the selectio11
of quotations my object has been to· bring forward especially the
idioms of colloquial Latin as found in Plautus, parts of Cicero, and
occasionally in the earlier poets. For forms of words Plautus and
Lucretius have been my chief authorities. I have endeavoured in
this way to make my book useful to the student who wishes to
acquire a knowledge of the early Roman writers, and to direct him
in each case to the original authorities, as far as they have been
preserved to us, for language and idiom. The general reader will,
I hope, find sufficient help in the introductory matter which I
have prefixed to every play, and to every scene in each of the
plays, as well as in the notes themselves, in which Ι have never
consciously passed over any thing which was likely to be mis-
understood, or which had been made the occasion of difficulty by
previous commentators.

